# Legacy minecraft server scripts
Now even with proper version naming...
Here are the legacy minecraft server maintenance scripts. Some options won't work any longer, but I think the installer should work now at least for the script itself. The binary I'm afraid you have to provide yourself; I recommend giving Spigot a try.

# History time
After I've switched my work environment to Linux in 2010, I was quite thrilled for the new opportunities. Automation is a big issue for me, and I leaned heavily into Bash. My first scripts were obviously badly written, but I learned a lot from feedback of the FOSS community, so I looked forward to give something back in return.

As Minecraft grew more popular, my friends and me were looking for a server, and since I've had hardware aplenty, doing it on my own was sort of a nobrainer. I wasn't happy with the provided scripts, so I took one I judged acceptable and wrote some lines of my own. Version 1.1 was born, which already included the possibility to run the whole server in RAM, which made it blazing fast. Of course I've published it, but knew about the unresolved license of the previous work, and thus rewrote the whole thing in the end, which then became v1.20, which in fact was v1.2, because I obviously was too stupid to properly name the versions. There I also tried to introduce some security measures, which in retrospect went rather poor. 

Pushing for v1.3 more ideas flew in, and the more complex it got, the more I was aware I'd need an installer, and an upgrade mechanism. What came out of this endeavour was the single most complex piece of Bash scripting work I've ever written until quite recently, and I'm not ashamed to say I'm still pretty proud of it, despite all the stuff I now know would be better if done different. There was a ton of messages from fellow minecraft server admins, some bugreports and other ideas, and in the end all this feedback probably paved the way from a humble hobby to my now professional life as a SysOp for Linux. It's no exaggeration to say I owe you guys more than a beer, that's for sure. And yes, it also remained a hobby of mine.

There was a v1.4 planned, but since the DMCA takedown notice on Bukkit and some other real life issues, it was never finished. This wasn't really a shame, since the advent of Systemd and the eventual deprecation of SysVinit, which this script was written for, made some wide ranging changes necessary anyway. So don't be sad for a never finished CommandGrid, there's ingame equivalents for it now. More or less.

The reason I've uploaded all those scripts in here is a big 'Thanks!' to all of you, who found it helpful, gave me support, and made me a happy man by pushing my joy and limits until I was able to make my hobby a full time job. And although I've planned releasing all those scripts for a long time, the final push for publication was committed unwittingly by GitHub user landsverk, who rescued v1.2 from my now defunct Minecraftwiki user account and published it here. To you a very special thanks!
